CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

It's recommended to use the [mise][mise] for development.

## Building locally

`dev1` is an example of a tag to test locally.

- `mise run build-lgtm dev1` will build the Docker image locally.
- `mise run lgtm dev1` will run the Docker image locally.

## Linting

- Markdown link checker: `mise run lint:links`
- Run all checks: `mise run lint`

## Renovate Dependency Tracking

The file `.github/renovate-tracked-deps.json` is an auto-generated snapshot of every dependency
that [Renovate][renovate] tracks in this repository, grouped by file.
A CI lint check regenerates this file and compares it against the committed version,
so pull requests that add or remove dependencies without updating the snapshot will fail.

To regenerate the snapshot after changing dependencies or the Renovate config:

```sh
AUTOFIX=true mise run lint:renovate-deps
```

Or use `mise run fix` to autofix all linters at once (note: this may also
reformat code via Super-Linter).

## Acceptance Tests

Acceptance test cases are defined in `oats.yaml` files in the examples directory.
The test cases are run by [oats].

If a test case fails (let's say `examples/nodejs`), follow these steps:

1. Build a new image: `mise run build-lgtm dev1`
2. `oats -timeout 2h -lgtm-version dev1 examples/nodejs` (automatically installed by `mise`)
3. go to <http://127.0.0.1:3000>

You can run all everything together using `mise run test`.

## Architecture diagram

> [!NOTE]
> The architecture diagram is only accessible to Grafana employees.

The source code for the architecture diagram is a [Google slide][architecture].
Take a screenshot of the slide and save it as `img/overview.png`.

## OTel Collector

### Testing the combined configuration

```shell
./otelcol-contrib --config docker/otelcol-config.yaml --config docker/otelcol-export-http.yaml \
print-initial-config --feature-gates otelcol.printInitialConfig > merged.yaml
```

<!-- editorconfig-checker-disable -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->

[architecture]: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1txMBBitezscvtJIXRHNSXnCekjMRM29GmHufUSI0NRw/edit?slide=id.g26040f0db78_0_0#slide=id.g26040f0db78_0_0
[mise]: https://github.com/jdx/mise
[oats]: https://github.com/grafana/oats
[renovate]: https://docs.renovatebot.com/

Commit message:

docs: simplify linting section in CONTRIBUTING.md
Reference flint README instead of duplicating linting and Renovate
dependency tracking documentation.
Signed-off-by: Gregor Zeitlinger <gregor.zeitlinger@grafana.com>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

It's recommended to use the [mise][mise] for development.

## Building locally

`dev1` is an example of a tag to test locally.

- `mise run build-lgtm dev1` will build the Docker image locally.
- `mise run lgtm dev1` will run the Docker image locally.

## Linting

This repository uses [flint](https://github.com/grafana/flint) for linting. See the flint README for detailed documentation on each linter.

```bash
mise run fix   # Auto-fix all issues (recommended before committing)
mise run lint  # Check only (same command used in CI)
```

Always run `mise run fix` before committing — review the changed files as auto-fixes may produce unexpected results.

## Acceptance Tests

Acceptance test cases are defined in `oats.yaml` files in the examples directory.
The test cases are run by [oats].

If a test case fails (let's say `examples/nodejs`), follow these steps:

1. Build a new image: `mise run build-lgtm dev1`
2. `oats -timeout 2h -lgtm-version dev1 examples/nodejs` (automatically installed by `mise`)
3. go to <http://127.0.0.1:3000>

You can run all everything together using `mise run test`.

## Architecture diagram

> [!NOTE]
> The architecture diagram is only accessible to Grafana employees.

The source code for the architecture diagram is a [Google slide][architecture].
Take a screenshot of the slide and save it as `img/overview.png`.

## OTel Collector

### Testing the combined configuration

```shell
./otelcol-contrib --config docker/otelcol-config.yaml --config docker/otelcol-export-http.yaml \
print-initial-config --feature-gates otelcol.printInitialConfig > merged.yaml
```

<!-- editorconfig-checker-disable -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->

[architecture]: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1txMBBitezscvtJIXRHNSXnCekjMRM29GmHufUSI0NRw/edit?slide=id.g26040f0db78_0_0#slide=id.g26040f0db78_0_0
[mise]: https://github.com/jdx/mise
[oats]: https://github.com/grafana/oats
