README.md, before:

# docker-otel-lgtm

[![Docker latest][docker-latest]][docker-hub]
[![Docker pulls][docker-pulls]][docker-hub]

An OpenTelemetry backend in a Docker image.

<!-- markdownlint-disable-next-line MD013 -->
![Components included in the Docker image: OpenTelemetry collector, Prometheus, Tempo, Loki, Grafana, Pyroscope](img/overview.png) <!-- editorconfig-checker-disable-line -->

The `grafana/otel-lgtm` Docker image is an open source backend for OpenTelemetry
that's intended for development, demo, and testing environments.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If you are looking for a **production-ready**, out-of-the box solution to monitor applications
> and minimize MTTR (mean time to resolution) with OpenTelemetry and Prometheus,
> you should try [Grafana Cloud Application Observability][app-o11y].

## Documentation

- Blog posts:
  - [_An OpenTelemetry backend in a Docker image: Introducing grafana/otel-lgtm_][otel-lgtm]
  - [_Observability in under 5 seconds: Reflecting on a year of grafana/otel-lgtm_][otel-lgtm-one-year]

## Get the Docker image

The Docker image is available on [Docker Hub][docker-hub].

```sh
docker pull grafana/otel-lgtm:latest
```

## Run the Docker image

### Linux/Unix

```sh
./run-lgtm.sh
```

### Windows (PowerShell)

```powershell
./run-lgtm
```

### Linux/Unix Using mise

You can also use [mise][mise] to run the Docker image:

```sh
mise run lgtm
```

## Configuration

### Enable logging

You can enable logging in the .env file for troubleshooting:

| Environment Variable     | Enables Logging in:     |
|--------------------------|-------------------------|
| `ENABLE_LOGS_GRAFANA`    | Grafana                 |
| `ENABLE_LOGS_LOKI`       | Loki                    |
| `ENABLE_LOGS_PROMETHEUS` | Prometheus              |
| `ENABLE_LOGS_TEMPO`      | Tempo                   |
| `ENABLE_LOGS_PYROSCOPE`  | Pyroscope               |
| `ENABLE_LOGS_OTELCOL`    | OpenTelemetry Collector |
| `ENABLE_LOGS_BEYLA`      | Beyla                   |
| `ENABLE_LOGS_ALL`        | All of the above        |

This has nothing to do with any application logs, which are collected by OpenTelemetry.

### Enable Beyla (eBPF auto-instrumentation)

[Grafana Beyla][beyla] uses eBPF to automatically generate traces and [RED][red-method] metrics
for HTTP/gRPC services — with zero code changes.

To enable Beyla, add `ENABLE_BEYLA=true` to your `.env` file or pass it as an
environment variable:

```sh
ENABLE_BEYLA=true ./run-lgtm.sh

# Using mise
mise run lgtm-beyla
```

**Requirements:** Linux kernel 5.8+ with BTF support. The `run-lgtm.sh` and
`run-lgtm.ps1` scripts automatically add the required `--pid=host` and
`--privileged` Docker flags when Beyla is enabled. If you run `docker run`
directly, you must add these flags manually.

> [!NOTE]
> The `--pid=host` flag shares the host's PID namespace with the container,
> so Beyla can discover and instrument processes running on the host — not just
> inside the container. For example, `BEYLA_TARGET=java` will instrument Java
> processes running on the host as well.

#### Target specific applications

By default, Beyla discovers services on common ports (80, 443, 8080-8099,
3000-3999, 5000-5999). You can target specific applications:

```sh
# Monitor all Java processes
ENABLE_BEYLA=true BEYLA_TARGET=java ./run-lgtm.sh

# Monitor all Python processes
ENABLE_BEYLA=true BEYLA_TARGET=python ./run-lgtm.sh

# Monitor a specific executable by name
ENABLE_BEYLA=true BEYLA_TARGET=myapp ./run-lgtm.sh

# Monitor specific ports
ENABLE_BEYLA=true BEYLA_OPEN_PORT=8080,9090 ./run-lgtm.sh
```

<!-- editorconfig-checker-disable -->

| Variable                | Purpose                                                                                          |
|-------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `BEYLA_TARGET`          | Friendly language target: `java`, `python`, `node`, `dotnet`, `ruby`, or any regular expression  |
| `BEYLA_OPEN_PORT`       | Override ports to monitor (native Beyla environment variable)                                    |
| `BEYLA_EXECUTABLE_NAME` | Executable name pattern (native Beyla environment variable, set automatically by `BEYLA_TARGET`) |

<!-- editorconfig-checker-enable -->

### Send data to vendors

In addition to the built-in observability tools, you can also send data to vendors.
That way, you can easily try and switch between different backends.

If the [`OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT`][otlp-endpoint]
variable is set, the OpenTelemetry Collector will send data (logs, metrics, and traces)
to the specified endpoint using "OTLP/HTTP".

In addition, you can provide [`OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_HEADERS`][otlp-headers],
for example, to authenticate with the backend.

#### Send data to Grafana Cloud

You can find the values for the environment variables in your [Grafana Cloud account][otel-setup].

### Persist data across container instantiation

The various components in the repository are configured to write their data to the `/data`
directory. If you need to persist data across containers being created and destroyed,
you can mount a volume to the `/data` directory. Note that this image is intended for
development, demo, and testing environments and persisting data to an external volume
doesn't change that. However, this feature could be useful in certain cases for
some users even in testing situations.

### Pre-install Grafana plugins

You can pre-install Grafana plugins by adding them to the `GF_PLUGINS_PREINSTALL` environment variable.
See the [Grafana documentation][grafana-preinstall-plugins] for more information.

## Run lgtm in Kubernetes

```sh
# Create k8s resources
kubectl apply -f k8s/lgtm.yaml

# Configure port forwarding
kubectl port-forward service/lgtm 3000:3000 4040:4040 4317:4317 4318:4318 9090:9090

# Using mise
mise k8s-apply
mise k8s-port-forward
```

## Send OpenTelemetry Data

There's no need to configure anything: the Docker image works with OpenTelemetry's defaults.

```sh
# Not needed, but these are the defaults in OpenTelemetry
export OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_PROTOCOL=http/protobuf
export OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT=http://127.0.0.1:4318
```

## View Grafana

Navigate to <http://127.0.0.1:3000> and log in with the default built-in user `admin` and password `admin`.

## Build the Docker image from scratch

```sh
cd docker/
docker build . -t grafana/otel-lgtm

# Using mise
mise build-lgtm
```

> [!TIP]
> If you built your image locally, you can use the `run-lgtm` scripts with
> the parameters `latest true` to run your local image (or `mise run local-lgtm`).

## Build and run the example app

> [!TIP]
> You can run everything together using [mise][mise] with `mise run all`.

### Run

Run the example REST service:

#### Unix/Linux

```sh
./run-example.sh
```

#### Windows (PowerShell)

```powershell
./run-example
```

#### Unix/Linux Using mise

```sh
mise run example
```

### Generate traffic

#### Unix/Linux

```sh
./generate-traffic.sh
```

#### Windows (PowerShell)

```powershell
./generate-traffic
```

#### Unix/Linux Using mise

```sh
mise run generate-traffic
```

> [!TIP]
> You can use [OTel Checker][otel-checker] to check if the instrumentation is correct.

## Run example apps in different languages

The example apps are in the [`examples/`][examples] directory.
Each example has a `run.sh` or `run.cmd` script to start the app.

Every example implements a rolldice service, which returns a random number between 1 and 6.

Each example uses a different application port
(to be able to run all applications at the same time).

| Example | Service URL                           |
|---------|---------------------------------------|
| Java    | `curl http://127.0.0.1:8080/rolldice` |
| Go      | `curl http://127.0.0.1:8081/rolldice` |
| Python  | `curl http://127.0.0.1:8082/rolldice` |
| .NET    | `curl http://127.0.0.1:8083/rolldice` |
| Node.js | `curl http://127.0.0.1:8084/rolldice` |

## Verifying Container Image Signatures

The container images that are published are signed using [cosign][cosign]. You
can verify the signatures using a command similar to the following example:

```sh
VERSION="0.11.16"
IMAGE="docker.io/grafana/otel-lgtm:${VERSION}"
IDENTITY="https://github.com/grafana/docker-otel-lgtm/.github/workflows/release.yml@refs/tags/v${VERSION}"
OIDC_ISSUER="https://token.actions.githubusercontent.com"

cosign verify ${IMAGE} --certificate-identity ${IDENTITY} --certificate-oidc-issuer ${OIDC_ISSUER}
```

It is also possible to verify the signatures of images from our continuous integration
that are published to the [GitHub Container Registry][ghcr]. For example for the `main` branch:

```sh
VERSION="main"
IMAGE="ghcr.io/grafana/docker-otel-lgtm:${VERSION}"
WORKFLOW="ghcr-image-build-and-publish.yml"
IDENTITY="https://github.com/grafana/docker-otel-lgtm/.github/workflows/${WORKFLOW}@refs/heads/${VERSION}"
OIDC_ISSUER="https://token.actions.githubusercontent.com"

cosign verify ${IMAGE} --certificate-identity ${IDENTITY} --certificate-oidc-issuer ${OIDC_ISSUER}
```

## Related Work

- [Metrics, Logs, Traces and Profiles in Grafana][mltp]
- [OpenTelemetry Acceptance Tests (OATs)][oats]

<!-- editorconfig-checker-disable -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->

[app-o11y]: https://grafana.com/products/cloud/application-observability/
[beyla]: https://grafana.com/oss/beyla-ebpf/ "Grafana Beyla"
[cosign]: https://github.com/sigstore/cosign "Cosign on GitHub"
[docker-hub]: https://hub.docker.com/r/grafana/otel-lgtm
[docker-latest]: https://img.shields.io/docker/v/grafana/otel-lgtm?logo=docker&label=latest&color=blue
[docker-pulls]: https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/grafana/otel-lgtm?logo=docker&label=pulls
[examples]: https://github.com/grafana/docker-otel-lgtm/tree/main/examples
[ghcr]: https://github.com/grafana/docker-otel-lgtm/pkgs/container/docker-otel-lgtm
[grafana-preinstall-plugins]: https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/setup-grafana/configure-docker/#install-plugins-in-the-docker-container
[mise]: https://github.com/jdx/mise
[mltp]: https://github.com/grafana/intro-to-mltp
[otel-checker]: https://github.com/grafana/otel-checker/
[otel-lgtm]: https://grafana.com/blog/2024/03/13/an-opentelemetry-backend-in-a-docker-image-introducing-grafana-otel-lgtm
[otel-lgtm-one-year]: https://grafana.com/blog/2025/07/08/observability-in-under-5-seconds-reflecting-on-a-year-of-grafana-otel-lgtm/
[otel-setup]: https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/send-data/otlp/send-data-otlp/#manual-opentelemetry-setup-for-advanced-users
[otlp-endpoint]: https://opentelemetry.io/docs/languages/sdk-configuration/otlp-exporter/#otel_exporter_otlp_endpoint
[otlp-headers]: https://opentelemetry.io/docs/languages/sdk-configuration/otlp-exporter/#otel_exporter_otlp_headers
[oats]: https://github.com/grafana/oats
[red-method]: https://grafana.com/blog/the-red-method-how-to-instrument-your-services/ "The RED Method"

Commit message:

Replace Grafana Beyla with upstream OpenTelemetry eBPF Instrumentation (OBI)
Beyla's core has been donated to the OpenTelemetry project as OBI.
Since this repo is a vendor-neutral OpenTelemetry stack, using the
upstream project is a better fit.

Key changes:
- Multi-stage COPY from otel/ebpf-instrument image instead of
  downloading Beyla release tarballs
- Env vars: BEYLA_TARGET → OBI_TARGET,
  BEYLA_EXECUTABLE_NAME → OTEL_EBPF_AUTO_TARGET_EXE,
  BEYLA_OPEN_PORT → OTEL_EBPF_OPEN_PORT
- Config: internal_metrics.prometheus.port → prometheus_export.port/path
- Remove download-beyla.sh (binary comes from container image)

README.md, after:

# docker-otel-lgtm

[![Docker latest][docker-latest]][docker-hub]
[![Docker pulls][docker-pulls]][docker-hub]

An OpenTelemetry backend in a Docker image.

<!-- markdownlint-disable-next-line MD013 -->
![Components included in the Docker image: OpenTelemetry collector, Prometheus, Tempo, Loki, Grafana, Pyroscope](img/overview.png) <!-- editorconfig-checker-disable-line -->

The `grafana/otel-lgtm` Docker image is an open source backend for OpenTelemetry
that's intended for development, demo, and testing environments.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If you are looking for a **production-ready**, out-of-the box solution to monitor applications
> and minimize MTTR (mean time to resolution) with OpenTelemetry and Prometheus,
> you should try [Grafana Cloud Application Observability][app-o11y].

## Documentation

- Blog posts:
  - [_An OpenTelemetry backend in a Docker image: Introducing grafana/otel-lgtm_][otel-lgtm]
  - [_Observability in under 5 seconds: Reflecting on a year of grafana/otel-lgtm_][otel-lgtm-one-year]

## Get the Docker image

The Docker image is available on [Docker Hub][docker-hub].

```sh
docker pull grafana/otel-lgtm:latest
```

## Run the Docker image

### Linux/Unix

```sh
./run-lgtm.sh
```

### Windows (PowerShell)

```powershell
./run-lgtm
```

### Linux/Unix Using mise

You can also use [mise][mise] to run the Docker image:

```sh
mise run lgtm
```

## Configuration

### Enable logging

You can enable logging in the .env file for troubleshooting:

| Environment Variable     | Enables Logging in:     |
|--------------------------|-------------------------|
| `ENABLE_LOGS_GRAFANA`    | Grafana                 |
| `ENABLE_LOGS_LOKI`       | Loki                    |
| `ENABLE_LOGS_PROMETHEUS` | Prometheus              |
| `ENABLE_LOGS_TEMPO`      | Tempo                   |
| `ENABLE_LOGS_PYROSCOPE`  | Pyroscope               |
| `ENABLE_LOGS_OTELCOL`    | OpenTelemetry Collector |
| `ENABLE_LOGS_OBI`        | OBI                     |
| `ENABLE_LOGS_ALL`        | All of the above        |

This has nothing to do with any application logs, which are collected by OpenTelemetry.

### Enable OBI (eBPF auto-instrumentation)

[OpenTelemetry eBPF Instrumentation (OBI)][obi] uses eBPF to automatically generate traces and
[RED][red-method] metrics for HTTP/gRPC services — with zero code changes.

To enable OBI, add `ENABLE_OBI=true` to your `.env` file or pass it as an
environment variable:

```sh
ENABLE_OBI=true ./run-lgtm.sh

# Using mise
mise run lgtm-obi
```

**Requirements:** Linux kernel 5.8+ with BTF support. The `run-lgtm.sh` and
`run-lgtm.ps1` scripts automatically add the required `--pid=host` and
`--privileged` Docker flags when OBI is enabled. If you run `docker run`
directly, you must add these flags manually.

> [!NOTE]
> The `--pid=host` flag shares the host's PID namespace with the container,
> so OBI can discover and instrument processes running on the host — not just
> inside the container. For example, `OBI_TARGET=java` will instrument Java
> processes running on the host as well.

#### Target specific applications

By default, OBI discovers services on common ports (80, 443, 8080-8099,
3000-3999, 5000-5999). You can target specific applications:

```sh
# Monitor all Java processes
ENABLE_OBI=true OBI_TARGET=java ./run-lgtm.sh

# Monitor all Python processes
ENABLE_OBI=true OBI_TARGET=python ./run-lgtm.sh

# Monitor a specific executable by name
ENABLE_OBI=true OBI_TARGET=myapp ./run-lgtm.sh

# Monitor specific ports
ENABLE_OBI=true OTEL_EBPF_OPEN_PORT=8080,9090 ./run-lgtm.sh
```

<!-- editorconfig-checker-disable -->

| Variable                   | Purpose                                                                                         |
|----------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `OBI_TARGET`               | Friendly language target: `java`, `python`, `node`, `dotnet`, `ruby`, or any regular expression |
| `OTEL_EBPF_OPEN_PORT`     | Override ports to monitor (native OBI environment variable)                                     |
| `OTEL_EBPF_AUTO_TARGET_EXE` | Executable name pattern (native OBI environment variable, set automatically by `OBI_TARGET`)  |

<!-- editorconfig-checker-enable -->

### Send data to vendors

In addition to the built-in observability tools, you can also send data to vendors.
That way, you can easily try and switch between different backends.

If the [`OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT`][otlp-endpoint]
variable is set, the OpenTelemetry Collector will send data (logs, metrics, and traces)
to the specified endpoint using "OTLP/HTTP".

In addition, you can provide [`OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_HEADERS`][otlp-headers],
for example, to authenticate with the backend.

#### Send data to Grafana Cloud

You can find the values for the environment variables in your [Grafana Cloud account][otel-setup].

### Persist data across container instantiation

The various components in the repository are configured to write their data to the `/data`
directory. If you need to persist data across containers being created and destroyed,
you can mount a volume to the `/data` directory. Note that this image is intended for
development, demo, and testing environments and persisting data to an external volume
doesn't change that. However, this feature could be useful in certain cases for
some users even in testing situations.

### Pre-install Grafana plugins

You can pre-install Grafana plugins by adding them to the `GF_PLUGINS_PREINSTALL` environment variable.
See the [Grafana documentation][grafana-preinstall-plugins] for more information.

## Run lgtm in Kubernetes

```sh
# Create k8s resources
kubectl apply -f k8s/lgtm.yaml

# Configure port forwarding
kubectl port-forward service/lgtm 3000:3000 4040:4040 4317:4317 4318:4318 9090:9090

# Using mise
mise k8s-apply
mise k8s-port-forward
```

## Send OpenTelemetry Data

There's no need to configure anything: the Docker image works with OpenTelemetry's defaults.

```sh
# Not needed, but these are the defaults in OpenTelemetry
export OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_PROTOCOL=http/protobuf
export OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT=http://127.0.0.1:4318
```

## View Grafana

Navigate to <http://127.0.0.1:3000> and log in with the default built-in user `admin` and password `admin`.

## Build the Docker image from scratch

```sh
cd docker/
docker build . -t grafana/otel-lgtm

# Using mise
mise build-lgtm
```

> [!TIP]
> If you built your image locally, you can use the `run-lgtm` scripts with
> the parameters `latest true` to run your local image (or `mise run local-lgtm`).

## Build and run the example app

> [!TIP]
> You can run everything together using [mise][mise] with `mise run all`.

### Run

Run the example REST service:

#### Unix/Linux

```sh
./run-example.sh
```

#### Windows (PowerShell)

```powershell
./run-example
```

#### Unix/Linux Using mise

```sh
mise run example
```

### Generate traffic

#### Unix/Linux

```sh
./generate-traffic.sh
```

#### Windows (PowerShell)

```powershell
./generate-traffic
```

#### Unix/Linux Using mise

```sh
mise run generate-traffic
```

> [!TIP]
> You can use [OTel Checker][otel-checker] to check if the instrumentation is correct.

## Run example apps in different languages

The example apps are in the [`examples/`][examples] directory.
Each example has a `run.sh` or `run.cmd` script to start the app.

Every example implements a rolldice service, which returns a random number between 1 and 6.

Each example uses a different application port
(to be able to run all applications at the same time).

| Example | Service URL                           |
|---------|---------------------------------------|
| Java    | `curl http://127.0.0.1:8080/rolldice` |
| Go      | `curl http://127.0.0.1:8081/rolldice` |
| Python  | `curl http://127.0.0.1:8082/rolldice` |
| .NET    | `curl http://127.0.0.1:8083/rolldice` |
| Node.js | `curl http://127.0.0.1:8084/rolldice` |

## Verifying Container Image Signatures

The container images that are published are signed using [cosign][cosign]. You
can verify the signatures using a command similar to the following example:

```sh
VERSION="0.11.16"
IMAGE="docker.io/grafana/otel-lgtm:${VERSION}"
IDENTITY="https://github.com/grafana/docker-otel-lgtm/.github/workflows/release.yml@refs/tags/v${VERSION}"
OIDC_ISSUER="https://token.actions.githubusercontent.com"

cosign verify ${IMAGE} --certificate-identity ${IDENTITY} --certificate-oidc-issuer ${OIDC_ISSUER}
```

It is also possible to verify the signatures of images from our continuous integration
that are published to the [GitHub Container Registry][ghcr]. For example for the `main` branch:

```sh
VERSION="main"
IMAGE="ghcr.io/grafana/docker-otel-lgtm:${VERSION}"
WORKFLOW="ghcr-image-build-and-publish.yml"
IDENTITY="https://github.com/grafana/docker-otel-lgtm/.github/workflows/${WORKFLOW}@refs/heads/${VERSION}"
OIDC_ISSUER="https://token.actions.githubusercontent.com"

cosign verify ${IMAGE} --certificate-identity ${IDENTITY} --certificate-oidc-issuer ${OIDC_ISSUER}
```

## Related Work

- [Metrics, Logs, Traces and Profiles in Grafana][mltp]
- [OpenTelemetry Acceptance Tests (OATs)][oats]

<!-- editorconfig-checker-disable -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->

[app-o11y]: https://grafana.com/products/cloud/application-observability/
[obi]: https://opentelemetry.io/docs/zero-code/obi/ "OpenTelemetry eBPF Instrumentation"
[cosign]: https://github.com/sigstore/cosign "Cosign on GitHub"
[docker-hub]: https://hub.docker.com/r/grafana/otel-lgtm
[docker-latest]: https://img.shields.io/docker/v/grafana/otel-lgtm?logo=docker&label=latest&color=blue
[docker-pulls]: https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/grafana/otel-lgtm?logo=docker&label=pulls
[examples]: https://github.com/grafana/docker-otel-lgtm/tree/main/examples
[ghcr]: https://github.com/grafana/docker-otel-lgtm/pkgs/container/docker-otel-lgtm
[grafana-preinstall-plugins]: https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/setup-grafana/configure-docker/#install-plugins-in-the-docker-container
[mise]: https://github.com/jdx/mise
[mltp]: https://github.com/grafana/intro-to-mltp
[otel-checker]: https://github.com/grafana/otel-checker/
[otel-lgtm]: https://grafana.com/blog/2024/03/13/an-opentelemetry-backend-in-a-docker-image-introducing-grafana-otel-lgtm
[otel-lgtm-one-year]: https://grafana.com/blog/2025/07/08/observability-in-under-5-seconds-reflecting-on-a-year-of-grafana-otel-lgtm/
[otel-setup]: https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/send-data/otlp/send-data-otlp/#manual-opentelemetry-setup-for-advanced-users
[otlp-endpoint]: https://opentelemetry.io/docs/languages/sdk-configuration/otlp-exporter/#otel_exporter_otlp_endpoint
[otlp-headers]: https://opentelemetry.io/docs/languages/sdk-configuration/otlp-exporter/#otel_exporter_otlp_headers
[oats]: https://github.com/grafana/oats
[red-method]: https://grafana.com/blog/the-red-method-how-to-instrument-your-services/ "The RED Method"
